>> Ben: I know that we said we would have
some time to kinda follow up with bigger
questions here at the end too.
So questions?
Yeah, what's up?
>> Speaker 2: What's the ideal size and
makeup of a design systems team?
>> Ben: Yeah, it's hard.
I think that changes as
the system matures, I know that.
Usually, the perfect team for stage 1 is
not the perfect team for stages 2 and 3.
So I think that the team needs to grow,
especially around in the areas
of customer support.
That's just an area where your design
system team needs to be really thinking
that through.
So around stage 2 and
3 is when I need to see those people
being added to the team for
it to sort of be healthy.
I mean, I know I was just at
Clarity at the end of last year,
Clarity Conference,
it's a design system event.
There was a really interesting
conversation happening among the attendees
about how a lot of them feel so lonely
in this work, because they are, in many
respects, the only person dedicated
to this inside their organization.
So there's a whole channel now created in
that design system Slack group that's just
designed system team of one.
And, I mean, we see all these articles
from these big teams, right, and
we read about how IBM is
doing this amazing work.
And they are, it's brilliant stuff, I love
it, but it's also not the norm [LAUGH].
So I love those articles,
I read all of those, and
I would definitely encourage
you to do the same.
But I would also say, you gotta be
realistic with what you can accomplish
given the resources that have
been allocated in your context.
I love this conceptual thinking, but I've
tried to make this more practical, but
it's impossible,
because every system is unique.
They're all different based on
the needs of the actual organization.
So one thing that I can encourage you
to do if you're asking that question is
to look at the different product teams or
feature teams or squads or
however you break up your work.
Look at the way those teams are structured
and at least use that as a model, okay?
That could be a way that would get
you into stage 3 pretty easily.
So that might be something to think about.
I wish I had a number to give you, but
[LAUGH] it's not that easy [LAUGH].
Any other questions?
Or any aha moments, yeah, what's up?
>> Speaker 3: So what do you do
when you've got that stage 1,
stage 2 design system team, and
kinda the resources that the team
is using to educate itself and
to sort of try to create sort of a shoot
for are looking at Adobe's work.
And they're looking at the Carbon's
work and they're like,
yeah, well, this is how they do it.
>> Ben: Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: How do
you kinda rectify the fact that
your team probably can't do that?
[LAUGH]
>> Ben: Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: At least not at first.
>> Ben: Man, it's so hard.
I mean, I have definitely been
guilty of that in the past.
>> Speaker 2: It's easy to
fall into that [COUGH].
>> Ben: I think the cultural stuff
that I've been doing has helped me
have conversations with
an organization about how, hey,
we need to structure the approach
here based on who we are.
So just that simple concept goes
a long way toward saying that that
work that Carbon did or that's in Spectrum
or whatever, those are great examples, but
we have a different culture,
we have different skill sets.
We have different experience levels here.
So also something like Spectrum and
Adobe is a little bit more
externally oriented too.
So it's kinda like, okay,
is that what we're doing?
Are we trying to build something for
other people to build stuff with or
are we trying to focus on something for
our team?
So it's those kinds of conversations
that have helped sort of
slowly move that dial, but
it's not a quick change.
And it's also really possible to look at
those articles and read whatever and say,
you know what, here's the thing we can
pull from this that will actually help us.
And maybe here's a few things
that probably don't apply, and
to be sort of more vocal about
calling that stuff out instead of
posting the article and
not saying anything, right?
That, I think,
is actually really dangerous.
Cuz what are you communicating with that?
You throw the article in the design
system channel or whatever,
are you saying we should
all work like this?
Or are you just saying
this is interesting, or
here's another perspective?
So maybe a little bit more communication,
a little bit more transparency
about your thinking for the piece,
which requires you to get in and
actually read it [LAUGH] and dissect it.
But I think that's where I would say don't
just willy-nilly throw that stuff around.
Post it at the beginning and say, you
know what, I think this is brilliant, but
we're not a system of systems, so
we're not gonna do what Spotify did or
whatever, we've got to be more
controlling than that, and here's why.
But I love this little bit that they did,
this way that they sent so and
so out to work on these product teams or
whatever.
So maybe there's nuggets you could pull,
I don't know if that would help, but yeah.
Another one online?
>> Speaker 4: I think this is probably
related, but what do you think about
white-label component libraries,
like Microsoft's FAST or ING s Lion?
>> Ben: Yeah, I mean,
we were talking a little bit about
this over one of the breaks.
[LAUGH] I think we've been in a lot of
situations where an organization started
with another system as sort of
a starting point for their work.
And they've come to us because they
feel like it's slowing them down and
they need something that's
more of a custom fit for them.
So I'm definitely biased
by that experience.
I'm sure there are systems out there that
have been built on those third party or
white-label platforms or frameworks.
I think it can be,
depending on where you are culturally,
if speed is the most important thing,
then maybe that's a great opportunity for
you to kinda get a lot of
work done in a quick time.
I think I would just be conscious of the
debt that you're accumulating by making
a choice like that, right?
You don't get anything for free.
So what you're getting is
a lot of quick to market,
we're gonna be able to make a lot of
progress in a short amount of time, but
at what cost,
is the question you have to ask.
So in the future, if this thing
doesn't do what we need it to do,
how hard will it be for us to yank
it out and replace it with our own?
That's the kinda questions
you've gotta ask.
>> Speaker 4: One more,
is Storybook really good or what tools of,
let me it right.
>> Ben: That's all right, yeah.
>> Speaker 4: What's your tool of
choice for tracking of a design,
[SOUND] one more time.
I wanna nail this question.
>> Ben: Yeah, fine.
>> Speaker 4: [LAUGH] Do you like
Storybook, or what is your tool of choice
generally for keeping track of
a design system within a company?
>> Ben: I always get this
question about tools, and
I have intentionally left every reference
to tooling out of all 200 of these slides.
[LAUGH] And that's because the tools are
gonna come and go, that's just the truth.
I want you to build something
that's not dependent on a tool.
I mean, this is so
bizarre to say cuz at one point,
I was talking with our
creative director about this.
And I remember saying to him,
we have to understand design
systems as an abstraction.
We need to understand what
they are absent of any tool.
And he was like,
absent of any tool, what do I have?
And we are just going back and
forth on this.
And here's the problem, right?
I love Figma,
I think it's an incredible tool.
They've done a ton of work to build
a really good community of folks who
really love their product.
They've built it in a way
that it's extendable,
they've got a really cool architecture.
I mean the collaborative stuff,
it's amazing.
But if you only build your system in
Figma, you're fully dependent on somebody
else's product to have a thing that
all of your products are dependent on.
That's just not a healthy place to be, so
I would encourage you to define the system
outside of the context of any tool.
And then of course, you're gonna use
these tools to build the system but
there's a thousand of them.
There's I mean I love figma.
We use sketch for a long time.
I know folks who are using Adobe tools
like they're really good designed tool.
We've definitely done a ton of
work with Storybook especially in
our react projects, but there's lots of
other options there's tons of tooling
around like zero height and supernova.
And plugins for
Figma that lets you manage your tokens and
all of this stuff it's like really
starting to kind of bloom and grow.
And you're gonna be faced with making
choices about how much these things cost,
what's the debt that I'm getting into by
aligning myself with this way of working.
So I would just say, I think there's great
value in almost every tool that I've seen.
I've been like,
that's actually really cool.
I love that they did that.
[LAUGH] Just try to make sure
you're also thinking about
what happens when we shift away from it?
So I'm sorry that I'm just not gonna
answer that question in the way that
it's asked but we've had great success
with storybook if that's a tool
you wanna use for
sure if it fits your context.
>> Speaker 5: How granular should
you make the design system?
One of the things we're struggling with
right now is do we designing component for
kind of its worst case scenario.
Or do we design the component for,
the 90% of the time use case and
try to avoid, bike shedding at all costs?
>> Ben: Yeah, I mean,
you can definitely get too into the weeds.
I think, there's definitely the model
where you're kind of looking at, I guess
in general, my approach to this is to
say like, what's the commonality, right?
So let's look across all of
our subscriber groups and
whatever this component is in their
context, what's the overlap, right?
So that means you're gonna be
building less in your system?
But for you to do that, you also have to
then think through how those subscriber
teams can take that core piece and turn
it into something that fits their model.
So I think that's a better approach
personally than trying to build
a single component that can transform
into all these different things.
That's my personal opinion there.
And there's probably situations where
I would recommend something different,
but does that make sense?
>> Speaker 6: Yeah, no, absolutely.
And then kind of as a follow up,
how close should the representation of
a component in code be to the component in
whatever creative software of choice
that you're using at the time?
So for me, Figma.
We have our product design team that
likes to build our very elaborate
prototypes in Figma to show to
stakeholders, what have you, but
there's just a lot of limitations
with how you can get.
Let's say, a date picker with
the drop-down calendar and a whole bunch
of secondary interactions inside of
it to look exactly like in the code.
So there is a little bit of disconnect for
us right now, but that's more so
just because from a technical standpoint,
it doesn't make sense,
at least from my standpoint.
Sorry, from my perspective
to spend time that could
otherwise be spent building
the component out in.
>> Ben: Yeah, [COUGH] so your question
was how close should they be?
And I would say they should
be very close [COUGH].
I think they should be the same.
That's the ideal.
But what I would say to the sort of
further explanation of what you described
is that's actually not
a design system problem,
that's just a workflow problem, right?
You have a separation between design and
development.
And you can't have that, you have to
have those people working together.
So the result would be maybe there's
a front end developer that's helping in
the development of this prototype, even
though they're not actually coding it out.
They're just like sitting there
working with those folks and
pairing with them as they're
developing a concept.
You wouldn't wanna sell
something that you can't build.
So you gotta be careful with that.
For a long time,my organization,
we just didn't have those distinctions.
And when we first started,
it was even more extreme.
We were just all in one room, it was a
small group, and we were all literally our
title, every single person was developer,
whether we were a designer or not.
And we thought of ourselves as just,
the end product is the digital
thing we're delivering.
For us at that time,
it was a lot of website stuff.
And so we just blurred the lines.
And that has kind of, that's like
foundationally where we came from.
And I think that sort of stayed with us.
And we definitely have distinct roles now.
But we have a lot of overlap,
and we don't put those people,
those disciplines on work on their own.
It doesn't work, it results in what
you're describing all the time and
it's just frustrating for everybody.
So I don't like the idea
of handoffs at all.
I'd rather we're just sort
of cycling through together.
Again, that's a cultural change though,
that may be a big organization shift for
you to have to require
something like that.
The system team could perhaps model it,
right?
So as you get an opportunity to build out
that team, don't just hire designers.
Bring in the different disciplines so that
you can actually work on these problems,
solving them in really good,
healthy ways together.
That then becomes a model for
how other teams could operate.
That whole designer developer thing is
still so, it's so entrenched, and it's
back to just the way our organizations
are structured in a lot of ways.
It's super unfortunate.
I wish it wasn't still like that.
But I definitely see design systems
as a way to kind of get at that.
Yeah.
>> Speaker 7: Could you share your
personal inputs regarding component types?
For example, Atomic Design by Brad Frost
assumes atoms, molecules, organisms, etc.
>> Ben: Yeah, Brad's work is
foundational to everything that we're
doing right now in the industry.
I am so glad that he published that
work and has used it with such success.
We've definitely done projects,
especially early in our systems
work where we took that approach.
We've used pattern lab in the past,
and we've had good success with it.
I think we've gotten away from it because
in some cases the language of atoms and
molecules, and all that stuff,
has kind of gotten more in
the way of communicating with
folks than I think was necessary.
So the approach that personally
that we kind of ascribe to
now is kind of what I showed with
the anatomy is that we think
that components can be simple,
or they can be complex.
So, you can have a component that is very,
very simple, a label.
You can also combine that,
with a button and an input, and
now you have a search bar component.
And, so that the simple idea of just
we can nest these things to create more
complexity I think is all
that's really needed.
And that's really the root of what the
atomic model is trying to communicate so
regardless of what you call
call those different layers.
Or if you even need to
call them something,
I don't really care as long as
you're gaining the idea that we
can increase complexity by
combining these things.
What's up?
>> Speaker 8: So
this big picture question.
>> Ben: Okay.
>> Speaker 8: So
you spent a lot of time researching,
thinking about all this
stuff around design systems.
As you've compiled all of that knowledge,
do you have any thoughts on kind
of where things are going, right?
Are there any things that
you've seen where you say,
this seems like a natural
evolution from where we are now?
>> Ben: Yeah, I mean, that's interesting.
I definitely think about this a lot,
especially with all the stuff
happening around AI.
Before a lot of that, before mid journey
and some of the stuff from Adobe and
all these other kind of text to
image type things happening.
I was thinking about how,
there's a bunch of books that are old
architectural books on systems that I've
been kinda just thumbing through and
they do this even back in Roman times and
stuff.
There's all these books about architecture
where they just lay out all the patterns.
They say, in this scenario where you have
the water here and the sun's rising on
this side, we wanna make sure we think
about the window placement here, and
the breeze, and all these.
And they've literally
thought it through and
kind of codified their style of
architecture from that time period.
And it's cool,
the books also have a lot of examples,
you can see these old structures,
some of them still standing or almost.
And it's really neat to see how those
things were actually put into practice.
I love the idea that we could
find ways to be a little bit
more explicit about the rules and
the guidelines for our systems so
that we could trust more
generative type things to happen.
I think there is critique.
This happens with every movement,
especially in interface work where,
when responsive happened, I remember
all the articles that were like,
responsive web designs is killing our
creativity on the web or whatever.
Same thing is happening with systems,
right?
Systematic approach removes
all the creativity.
Well, that's just BS to me.
It's like,
what problems do you wanna solve, right?
Do you wanna solve the border radius
problem again, come on, good grief,
move on.
So, solve those problems, solve them well,
move on to the new challenges.
But I love the idea that we could
articulate the sort of big picture
guidelines so well that we could then
trust the system to generate a new
color palette for us, or
whatever it is that we want it to do.
So, I definitely think there's
people doing that stuff now.
We'll see how it plays out in
terms of its usability, and
if it's actually helpful, or
if it creates more confusion.
I definitely think there's
also a trend toward, well,
I guess early on, we got this big
idea of what a system could be and
we thought,
let's build a system that does everything.
[LAUGH] And so, systems got
wildly complex, really fast, and
a lot of them fell apart because of it.
There is a lot happening here,
there's a lot to maintain.
So, I definitely think there's a trend
where people have been through that pain
and they're pulling back, they're scaling
way back in what their system offers.
And they're choosing to offer things
that are really high quality,
that are well done, really well done
pieces that become then the bedrock
of a lot of product work instead of
being the fancy stuff on the surface.
So, I think that definite movement
towards doing less is something I like.
And it's enabling for
your teams too, right?
For your subscribers to feel like okay,
I got the stuff I need, I got my type and
my colors and
I don't wanna mess with that stuff anyway.
Let me just build the actual experience.
So, that can be a really good, I think,
shift that we're starting to see.